# Finding the Money Movie Script

Finding the Money. Directed by Maren Poitras. 2024. 1:27:00. https://findingmoney.com/.

MLA Style (9th edition):

Finding the Money. Directed by Maren Poitras, 2024. https://findingmoney.com/.

APA Style (7th edition):

Poitras, M. (Director). (2024). Finding the Money [Film]. https://findingmoney.com/

It's in a sense risky to try to change the entire narrative. When I show up for an appearance, it's like walking into the lion's den. But because I've done it so many times, I get a good response. It It depends a little bit how much time they give me. If they give me 45 minutes, it's a little tougher. If they give me an hour and a half, I can almost convince the whole crowd. With 2 hours, everybody's pretty comfortable with the ideas. So much of the public discourse, it's like we're going through life with one eye shut and one eye open and we're only getting half the picture. And then somebody like me comes in and says, "Well, let's make sure we see the full picture." [Music] For as long back as I can remember, there's been this drum beat of a narrative When politicians talk about spending more money on healthcare for all, inequality, housing, or our climate crisis, the first question they're usually confronted with is, "How in the world could we possibly spend more? We're already trillions in the hole." And people point to the size of the national debt. We must begin to make some payments on our enormous national debt if we are to avoid passing on to our children an impossible burden of debt. New worries today over the exploding federal debt. Already the national debt is at record high. We want to lift this crushing burden of debt off our children and grandchildren. The national debt is exactly the opposite of what the orthodox story tells us. An unconventional economic theory is gaining some traction. Modern monetary theory, MMT, and one of its leading proponents is Professor Stephanie Kelton. One of the most influential and indeed controversial economists in America today. In conventional wisdom, surpluses are good, deficits are bad. Deficit spending should not be a feature of our budget. They think of the federal government like a household. Government deficits are completely different. We must bring those deficits down. If we don't, we will leave an unconscionable burden of national debt for our children. [Applause] The government debt is not a burden on anyone. We're borrowing trillions of dollars from China. Does the government have to borrow dollars? No. Of course not. The federal government is where the money comes from. When a fringe economic theory goes mainstream, you better pay attention. Six presidents have come before you, to warn of the damage deficits pose to our nation. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to act now to make sure we aren't buried under a mountain of debt. It is very difficult to reverse a paradigm. We will address the catastrophic crisis of climate change. How do we pay for climate mitigation? How are we going to pay for it? You're asking the wrong question. Finding the money is the easy part. They don't find the money, they create it. The true story of money is not the story that I've been told. That's beautiful. I love stuff like this because how can you have more fun on Twitter? To be honest, I would like to work on my book project and I know that my publisher would like me working on my book project and spending less time on Twitter. But I think I have to engage in these battle of ideas. People don't make the connection that the national debt is nothing but all these safe assets. It's just our savings. You could take the national debt clock that scares everyone and just rename it the US dollar savings clock and I think everybody would have a very different kind of reaction. And so I think 95% of the problems that we have getting better policy is probably down to the words we use to describe what's actually happening. [Music] Thanks everyone for coming tonight. We have with us Stephanie Kelton. She is a professor at Stonybrook. She's also an economic adviser to the Bernie Sanders campaign. You've probably heard in the news about modern monetary theory. Modern monetary theory. Modern monetary theory. Modern monetary theory. What do you think of that idea? because it's being rooted as a way to spend more money on infrastructure on the Green New Deal. What is MMT about and why has it suddenly sort of exploded? MMT starts with the understanding that the federal government is the issuer of the currency. [Music] Every dollar that exists was created by the US government. We issue the US dollar. The federal government can issue more dollars at any time it likes. People like Alan Greenspan or Ben Bernanki said the same things. We're saying there's nothing to prevent the federal government from creating as much money as it wants and paying it to somebody. We simply use the computer to mark up the size of the account that they have with the Fed. We we won't run out of money. But usually the narrative goes something like this. A national debt of 11 trillion. At what point do we run out of money? Well, we've we're out of money now. Uh, you know, we're operating uh in deep deficits. We're broke. America's broke. The federal government is broke. Bankrupting our country. We have no savings account. Congress has spent all the money. What MMT is trying to say is, of course, the US has its own currency. Of course it can't run out of money. Of course it can't end up broke. In her talk, Professor Kelton will cast a different light on the ongoing views over the budget deficit, arguing that Democrats and Republicans are both missing the bigger picture when it comes to paying for our future. Thank you. Thank you very much. What can we afford? What can we afford? If we have all of these ambitious things that we as a nation might like to do, the really important debate is, do we have the resources to do it? Because the US government is never going to run out of the US dollar. Hi everyone. Thank you so much for joining us. Congress holds the power of the purse. They don't need to come to the rest of us to get dollars in order to be able to spend dollars. They're the source of the US currency. Yeah, in a real sense, it is as simple as that. But you have to be able to trace through all of the implications of that observation. And that's where the story gets much richer. Today I nominate Jared Bernstein, an old friend who's been with me a long time, a brilliant thinker. White House economic adviser Jared Bernstein joins us now from the White House. Thanks so much. The US government can't go bankrupt because we can print our own money. It obviously begs the question, why exactly are we borrowing in a currency that we print ourselves? I'm waiting for someone to stand up and say, why do we borrow our own currency in the first place? Like you said, they print the dollar. So why why does the government even borrow? Well, um the uh so the I mean again some of this stuff gets some of the language that the MM language and concepts are just confusing. I mean, the government definitely prints money and it definitely lends that money, which is why u the government definitely prints money and then it lends that money by uh by selling bonds. Uh is that what they do? They they um they Yeah, they they um they sell bonds. Yeah, they sell bonds, right? Because they sell bonds and people buy the bonds and lend them the money. Yeah. So a lot of times a lot of times at least to my ear with with MMT the the language and the concepts can be kind of unnecessarily confusing. But there is no question that the government prints money and then it uses that money to um uh uh so um see that uh yeah they they print money and they use that money uh to um they sell bonds, they borrow. Um yeah, I I guess I'm just I don't I can't really talk I don't I don't get it. I don't know what they're talking about. Like because it's like the government clearly prints money. It does it all the time and it clearly borrows otherwise we wouldn't be having this debt and deficit conversation. So I don't think there's anything confusing there. We were always asking ourselves the question, do conventional economists understand what we're speaking of but yet not talking about it or is it that they actually don't understand? I believe some of the things that are preventing us from taking bolder action are really just myths and misunderstandings about how our monetary system works. It's an honor to be here in the presence of future senators and Congress people. I grew up in the Middle East. This is what the map looks like in the summer when they show the weather forecast. Within my lifetime, the Middle East will be uninhabitable within the summer months, which means hundreds of millions of climate refugees will be moving across the planet. A Green New Deal was proposed as an ambitious set of policies to improve everyday Americans well-being and prosperity while we transform and decarbonize the economy. The planet is on fire. Millions of people want to work and can't find work. And yet we're told there's nothing we can do. It's too expensive. We can't afford this. We're broke. The government doesn't have money. We have to borrow from China. Democrats unveiling their radical extreme Green New Deal today to address catastrophic climate change. The Green New Deal has an estimated price tag of $7 trillion. Where's the money coming from? It's going to mean big time taxes. That is unrealistic. How do you pay for it? I can't cuz there's no way to pay for it. MMT goes, "Hang on, hold up." The question that we should all be asking of a currency issuing government is not how are we going to pay for it. We should replace that question with how are we going to resource it? Not the financial resources, but the real resources. How did we pay for World War II? World War II came right after the Great Depression. This was a time of desperation. Uncle Sam didn't take his hat off and go around to the population in the depths of the depression asking people to chip in just a little bit. This is when the economist John Maynard Kanes wrote that little book and he called it how to pay for the war. And just judging by the title of the book, you would think, oh, it's going to tell me where the government got all the money to pay for World War II. And it turns out it has nothing to do with that. It wasn't about how to pay for the war, where to get the money. It was about how are we going to spend all of this money to win the war without causing inflation. That's what the whole book is about. So, where did the money come from? The federal government has the authority to spend money into existence. The federal government is the only issuer of the currency. Since war production began, we've had more money than there were things to spend it on. The war started and we start spending money into existence like crazy to build for the war effort. The government was going to spend a lot of money, hire a lot of people by the end of the war. They tell me that we Americans will have billions of dollars saved up. So if you want it, you'll be going out on a shopping spree and bidding up car prices and home price. You'll be causing inflation. And the government was like, "Wait a minute. I don't want you trying to spend a lot of money at the same time." Step two, the government started selling freedom bonds or war bonds. The war bonds weren't about financing the government's spending. They understood really well the purpose of the war bonds. There are things we as individuals can do right now. First, continue to save our money to buy and hold all the war bonds we can afford. Do me a favor. Delay your consumption. Wait until after we win the war. buy only what we really need and pay no more than ceiling prices. Economists understood the government can't run out of money. They were focused like a laser on finding the resources and releasing resources from other uses so that we could build the tanks and the fighter planes. The city of Detroit was completely transformed. Detroit didn't produce any new cars between 42 and 45. To solve climate change, we need to move probably around 10% of GDP or the nation's production to decarbonize transportation, energy, agriculture, housing. We've done this before. We had to move 50% of the nation's production to fight the war. We did it. So, the experts tell us that we have less than a decade if we're going to avert the worst impacts of climate change. The clock is ticking. Do we have the resources to do what needs to be done? Finding the money is the easy part. That's the simplest part of this whole conversation. Where will the money come from? What matters is whether any proposed new spending carries heightened inflation risk. What doesn't matter is whether it adds to the deficit or whether it increases the size of the debt. Well, the hottest debate in the economics world right now is over MMT or modern monetary theory. Many economists have pushed back on some of MMT's core ideas, including Larry Summers, formerly Treasury Secretary and an adviser to President Obama. I think MMT is today's version of voodoo economics. It promises a free lunch. Crackpot modern monetary theory. Most Republicans rightly lampoon this quackery. The weird thing about MMT is I still can't figure out what it actually is. The last thing we need is some hairbrain theory that basically says there's a free lunch. You don't need to worry about it. First they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they fight you, and then you win. Previous years we were taking off, the wind was at our backs. Now it's more like a hurricane. Okay. Hi. It's more interviews than I can keep up with. Nice to meet you. Thanks everybody. Nice to talk with you. Okay. And it's a lot of work because with each new day there's some people who encounter the ideas for the very first time. So what is the role of taxation? So in MMT, we don't think about taxation as providing the government with revenue. A government that issues its own currency clearly does not need to tax me in order to get the dollar. They're the issuer of the dollar. Next one is here. Okay. Thank you so much. You're so welcome. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Okay. I'm so sorry. My third. Come on in. There's a lot of confusion and sometimes opposition to MMT, which I actually understand because when I first came across these ideas, I was skeptical, too. So, the story I'm writing, I want to introduce the concept of MMT and also trace the intellectual origins of it. Start at the beginning. Yeah. Warren Mosler. That's where MMT I think really in a sense is born. I was a graduate student at Cambridge University. The first time that I remember hearing Warren Mosler's name, it was 1996 and Warren was getting active on this listerve. We called it the PKT, the postcanesian thought list. Matt Forstatter was there and Randy Ray and this guy named Warren Mosler started posting comments. He starts floating these ideas and he starts saying things like the government doesn't need your dollars to be able to spend. It's not the government that needs the dollars. It's the rest of you that need the dollars. Everybody's wait what? I did not fully understand everything that Warren was talking about on day one. It took me quite a while before it seeped all the way in. Warren Mosler wasn't trained as an economist. He worked in finance. He was a bond trader. So, financial markets and monetary operations were his bread and butter. For me, the story starts in college. One of my students, Pavina Chair, I was looking for an internship. I went to work with Warren. He would come in and he would say, "Here you've got these congressmen saying they need to get dollars first by taxing or by borrowing in order to spend them." That's the only story I'd ever heard. In fact, it's the reverse. The government, which is the issuer of the currency, has to spend first before it can collect taxes. Immediately, it sparks a lot of debate. It sounds too easy in a sense. I remember thinking this has got to be wrong, but I couldn't quite figure out why and I couldn't let go of it. So, I told Randy, "It can't be right." It was all a little bit puzzling. And Randy said, "You should write a paper. You should write it up because if he's wrong, he would want to know it." It's not obvious from just watching from a distance, but it's fairly simple. If you think of the government from the beginning in the American colonies, colonial paper notes were widely used. Colonial governments collected their taxes in these notes. But where did the notes come from in the first place? Americans didn't have colonial currency and they couldn't have colonial currency until that currency was spent into the economy. The government didn't collect taxes before they spent. Governments have to spend first. How can you tax money that no one has? Then people would pay their taxes with the paper money. When the paper money came back in, once those notes returned to them, they burn them. They burn all of them. I don't know if that's going to bother people to find out that when they pay their taxes, the government just burns it, but we'll come back to that. You want to go work? Warren always said he wasn't proposing a new way of doing things. He was just trying to explain accurately how the monetary system works today, the one we have already. But it all felt really backwards to me. So I sat down and I thought that I was going to do this more carefully than Warren had. I spent most of the year reading Treasury and Fed manuals, really digging into the mechanics of the federal budgeting process and the clearing of payments and all the balance sheets and just the how it all works. I started getting on the phone and talking to people at Treasury, at Fed. Modern monetary theory, even the proponents admit that it's not necessarily a theory as much as it is a description of reality, of how things appear to work. The US government is not like a household. The government creates the money. You don't have to ask the question of where do you get the money? These are factually correct statements, so it's very hard to argue against them. Then I started writing. The title of the paper was, "Do taxes and bonds finance government spending." Naturally, I thought the answer was yes. That's what I had been taught to believe. And I didn't know when I started this paper where it was going to end up. I just let the story take me wherever it's going to take me. And when I worked out all of the operational mechanics, I ended up at exactly the same place where Warren ended up. The government does have to spend before it can tax. Going through the mechanics, although it flips your world upside down, makes everything seem more clear. [Music] Hey everybody, this is Barack Obama. I've got my chief economist Jason Ferman here. I mean, modern monetary theory is not something we teach our students. It's not something that's in our textbooks. I think the biggest issue is that sometimes modern monetary theory seems to play a word game where it says, "Oh, we don't need to worry about the deficit for this reason, but actually we do need to worry about it for some other reason like inflation." Well, all of those get you to roughly the same place in your thinking about budget deficits. No, I mean the difference is not a trivial one. It changes everything. It changes our view of the nature of money. What is money and what gives money value? Money is what you use for transactions and it has value because we all believe it has value. If suddenly we decided that didn't have value, it would not have value. Money is this really important mode of interacting economically so we don't have to barter. I don't you know I think if you drill too far down into some of these questions I feel like you lose the thread. Didn't they tell you you never touch the money question? When Paul Krugman was a student at MIT one of his peers in graduate school was an economist named Bernard Leotir. Paul Cricman told me personally and Leotir wanted to talk about money. Didn't they tell you? Tell you never touch the money system. You can touch everything else. There's a theory that says we should not be looking too closely at money or almost even talking about money too much. What is money and where does money come from? We could rip off the veil of this thing and openly look at how it works, but maybe that would lead us to some dangerous places. It's just best to let that be. When I wrote the first book on MMT, I wrote a letter to Robert Hybrroner and asked him if he would write a blurb for the book and he said, "I can't because the topic is money and your book is going to scare the hell out of everyone." Okay? Uh and he was right. There are two words that scare the pants off of people. They are the national debt and the deficit. We don't talk about finance, banking, debt, money. These are questions that will put you on a path that leads you to Siberia. You don't want to step out and contradict the entire underlying principles of your profession. It's a very dangerous kind of lonely place to be. You're killing yourself academically if you touch the money system. We coalesed at the University of Missouri in Kansas City where Fodel and Lua were students of ours. But for many years we felt ignored. This is what Bernard Leotir said. He said they took all the MMT people and they put them at the equivalent of Siberia. Because MMD starts with the money question, a question you're not supposed to raise. [Music] [Music] The first kind of business was bar. But what would you trade in a hardware store for a gallon of paint? Money has evolved from an age-old search for a satisfactory medium of exchange. Money should be something of value. Gold and silver emerged as the most durable, most satisfactory money. For greater convenience, men started out gold and silver coins with values imprinted on them. Later, governments took over the exclusive function of finding money. [Laughter] Everything is wrong with that story. If you look at any economics textbook, it's almost exactly always the same story. The barter story fits into the mainstream ideology. They want to start with the market, the private market with no government, and then much later in their story, the government comes along to use some of that money like the rest of us. The problem with that story, number one, when was there ever this barter market? Money has existed for thousands of years before markets were developed. And rather than gold, for most of time, people have used clay or sticks or shells or paper, things that don't have apparent intrinsic value. Why? [Music] There are monies that you will not even see in physical form. [Music] If we take ancient Egypt, the Debben never changed hands. It was simply a virtual record. And the reason is because money is not a physical object. is it's a unit of measure and it's a record of a social debt relationship. The earliest forms of money that we find are Mesopotamian clay tablets. It appears that in the very beginning the authorities would impose taxes in kind, say two goats or maybe one cow. You could think of money much the way we think of centime, inches, pounds. The development of a money unit of account is conceptually a bit more difficult because you can use it to value things that have apparently nothing in common. A bushel of wheat versus a goat. Ancient Mesopotamia had complex social organizations, structure, production systems. And like every society, they had to keep track of things. The clay tablets were counting records. They were like little ledgers. In fact, these are the earliest records of writing. So writing wasn't invented by poets. It was invented by accountants. to solve the problem of producing and distributing real resources like bread, labor, livestock, beer. Money is not itself a real resource. Money is a tool invented by political authorities to organize and mobilize real resources. [Music] I was not originally interested in economics, but many of the issues that I was concerned about, poverty, unemployment, environmental sustainability, came down to econom economics, but I didn't know the terminology, so I couldn't argue against it. Joan Robinson famously remarked, "We study economics so as not to be fooled by economists." I early on, a young assistant professor and still trying to grasp the ideas myself, I would observe Warren explaining these issues and see how people reacted, the questions that they would ask. For example, if government can create the money, then why do we have to pay taxes? [Music] Let's say a colonial government wants to hire people to build roads. They have a new colonial currency and they offer people so much a day to come work building roads. But the people looked at their currency and they say, "Why would we work hard in order to get your money? uh what would we do with that? In fairly short order, they've been like, "Oh, wait. Taxes." They impose a tax that is only payable in the colonial currency. We only take this special thing. We only take this money thing. Now, everyone has to obtain that money to pay their tax or go to jail. Suddenly they had a demand for the currency. What do you get? Folks who need the thing that the sovereign is demanding in payment. [Music] The government did not need the money. What the government wanted and what they needed for their purposes was for the people to need the money. Now the authority can go out and purchase the goods or labor it wants when it wants. The tax is that motor that engine of transferring those resources. Money is really the vehicle. It is the taxation system that gets the whole monetary system going to begin with. [Music] The federal deficit is on track to exceed $1 trillion next year. The deficit is the difference between the amount the government takes in, often through taxes, and what it spends. If you total each of these yearly deficits, over the history of the United States, we call that the national debt. Our nation's out of control. The debt is the biggest threat to our economy. Those debts get passed on to our kids. And I refuse to leave our children with a debt that they cannot repay. We have piled deficit upon deficit. Mortgaging our future. And our childrening our future. We're mortgaging our children's future. I need more coffee. Nice to meet you. Absolutely. So I'm at the New York Times and I'm working on a piece about budget deficits. If I record you or No. Right. There we go. If someone said, "What's the strength of MMT?" It's monetary operations. No question about it. It's how it all actually works. People will sometimes say MMT is the school of thought that says deficits don't matter. Obviously, that's wrong. Deficits do matter. They can be too big. They can be too small. So, if the government is running a budget deficit, it just means they're spending more into the economy than they're taking out. Right? That's all the deficit is. It's like we're going through life with one eye shut and one eye open. Let's make sure we see the full picture. Please join me in welcoming Dr. Stephanie Kelton to the stage. First, what is the deficit? People naturally think, "Wait, government deficit bad? This is a negative thing. Let's stop this right now." And I say, "Hang on, let's open the other eye." So, I want us to suppose that I'm the federal government. If I'm government and I spend $100 into the economy, the government spends a hundred into the economy taxes 90 back out. We record on the government's ledger a budget deficit of 10 minus 10 government deficit. But we forget that on the other side of the ledger, guess what? When they spend a hundred in and they only tax 90 out, somebody gets left with 10. That's your surplus. Their deficit is your surplus. Oh, right. You got your surplus from the government's deficit. And all of a sudden, they start realizing that they've been missing part of the story. That's when I show the sector balance graph to audiences. It's the most important chart in the world. Government deficits are almost always seen in a negative light. Nothing but a sea of worrying red ink. That's not how I look at it. Here's what I see. I see what's happening on the other side of the government's ledger. On the other side of the government's deficit is a non-government surplus. Their minus 10 is matched by a plus 10 on somebody else's balance sheet. So my red ink is your black ink. That graph is really the one that when I show it to audiences, it changes everything. So when you see a headline like this one, trillion dollar deficits could be the new normal. This is meant to shock and frighten. But take a breath and read it this way. Watch the word deficit. Don't you feel better? Don't you feel better? Trillion dollar surpluses to the private sector could be the new normal. Oh, all right. I'm down. We were trying to figure out how to communicate these ideas and Warren came up with the suggestion that our department create our own currency. So welcome everyone back to principles of macroeconomics. Around 2000 we decided to organize our community service program through a monetary system. We decided to impose a tax of 20 buckaroos per student per semester or you don't get your grades. And that was enough to enforce it. Here's the buckaroo because we here at UMKC are the kangaroos or the ruse, right? There were so many things that you could explain through this. For example, it was impossible from the very beginning for the UMKC economics department to run a surplus. Suppose that you perform 10 hours of community service. Okay, 10 buckaroos. Now the economics department is running a deficit of 10 and the student population has a surplus of 10. I can collect 10 buckaroos back at the end of the semester, but I cannot collect back 11. How can you collect more in taxes than you spent into the economy? It's impossible. So if you all the students want to save any buckaroos for a future semester or in case you would get sick, if the currency issuer does not run a deficit, then people cannot save in that currency. So the normal situation for a currency issuer is to be in deficit. Tonight I come before you to announce that the federal deficit will be simply zero. Now we are on course for budget surpluses for the next 25 years. During the late 90s and early 2000s, most economists to them this looked like a Goldilocks economy. We ran a surplus for four years and I was controller general then. Okay. We paid down debt two of those four years. My name's Dave Walker. I think I may have the record for the most testimonies in Congress by an individual. I've got about 350. I recognize David Walker, the former head of the Government Accounting Office. After nearly 30 years of deficits, the combination of hard choices and remarkable economic growth has led to a budget surplus. A lot of people missed what was going on at the time. Yeah, we had a surplus when Bill Clinton was president. That means extra money. Extra money. The government sector is in red in this graph and except for the Clinton years, it is always in deficit below the line. Private sector is blue. It's almost always in surplus except for the decade after 1996. It was the private sector that was spending more than its income. We were running the deficits. The sectoral balances approach means every time you say the government should run a surplus, you are saying that everybody else should collectively run a deficit. This is an accounting identity. The total spending has to equal the total income. Because every dollar spent is received by somebody as income. It doesn't end up on Mars or something yet. So, it has to be here somewhere. Have you ever seen this graph? Is this a well-known graph in the government accounting office? No. Never seen it before. Never heard of it. You know, doesn't make sense to me. Nobody could possibly disagree because just a fact. I'm in the accounting hall of fame and it's in common knowledge. If the government runs a budget surplus, it will be reducing our income. Go and look at the United States. How often have we put the government's budget in surplus? Seven times in our nation's history. We did it from 1817 to 1821. What happened? Had a depression that started in 1819. We did it again. Depression. Depression. Not recession. Depression. The last time we did it was under President Bill Clinton. Randy could see the writing on the wall. We knew the private sector was vastly overinded. By 1998, we were predicting a big crash would come. What happened? The economy went into recession in 2001 and we ended up with a great recession just a handful of years later. because it's actually not possible for the government sector to be saving running a surplus and the private sector to be saving that is running a surplus. This is not possible for the United States. If you're not thinking about it, you can be led into mistakes. The idea that when the government ran a surplus that that was negative for the private sector, uh, I don't get it. If you put the budget in surplus means you're drawing down the non-government surplus. That's what it means. It doesn't mean the government is looking around and successfully finding more dollar bills out in the world so that it has a bigger pile of dollars that it can spend. Because money, it's not something we dig out from the ground. We create it. It's an accounting device. And money always has two sides. Most people think in medieval Europe that kings collected gold coins and tax payment. In reality, most of the spending and taxing was done in tally sticks. Tally sticks were hazelwood and first they would put score marks on it. Then they would split the stick in two into stock and stub. The king would purchase a wagon by issuing half of a tally stick. You will take the stick if you can use that to pay your taxes. And the treasury would keep the stub or debt half. So when tax time came, the kings would send out the tax collectors. They would match the stock and stub to make sure nobody had counterfeited. Once you had delivered back your half the tally stick, your taxes were paid. So although most of the revenue was in the form of tally sticks, there's no reason to collect them and save them. Once the stock and stub were matched, they were always burned. And still today when the government receives tax dollars they are destroyed. That's the nature of IO use. When they come back to the issuer they're just destroyed. Imagine a group of people living in an organized community. They decide everyone should contribute weekly chores like gardening, cooking, or cleaning. So doing your chores is like paying your taxes. The community center, like a government, could record when each person finished their chores, or the center could pay chore credits. Say each adult needs to turn in 10 chore credits a week to meet their obligation. Some might choose to earn more credits than they need, so they could use the credits to pay other members for special things they produce, like baskets. Those members can then pay their own tax with the chore credits. The value of the chore currency is determined by what you have to do to get it. For example, one chore credit for 1 hour of labor. The chore credit would be an IOU of the community center. It says I owe you a reduction in your chore obligation account. So, the currency is simultaneously a credit and debt relationship based on a two-sided accounting ledger. The center tallies a liability when they create their IOU, the chore credit, and it circulates around the community. Whenever the IUs come back from any member to be redeemed for tax payment, the credit debt relationship is complete. The numbers on the balance sheet go back down. and the credits and debits disappear. Government spending operates exactly the same way. Currency is the government's IOU. The US dollar is a US tax credit. Money always has two sides. And so the currency itself is the government's debt. That green piece of paper, we call it the dollar bill. That is a debt of our Fed. And they say that money issued by the government is recorded as a liability on the government. It's not true. No. Nobody can hold a financial asset unless somebody has issued a debt. Reserve notes aren't accounted for as liabilities. I don't think I don't think so. No, that's just plain wrong. Anyone can look at the Fed's balance sheet and reserves are on the liability side. Currency notes are a liability. What is the Fed liable for? They're liable for redeeming the government's outstanding tax credits. Once these come back to the government, they're not assets to the government. It's not that the government gets something when you pay taxes. It's just that you have fewer credits on your account. The government is no longer in debt when it receives back its IOU, so it burns it. So, Federal Reserves and cash, are those recorded as a liability on the Fed's balance sheet? Yes. Yeah. They they're again accounting. It must be accounted for somewhere, right? Like it's it's accounted for by the Fed. Uh but it's not an asset or a liability. Okay. Money is always a two-sided relationship. It's it's a medium. It's a medium. And so, that's what most people probably not understanding. They're thinking of physical notes changing hands. I'm talking about the currency notes, okay? A means of exchange, which I think goes back to the myth of barter. Gold and silver emerged as the most satisfactory medium of exchange. The media of exchange is relatively unimportant. Money has always been the debt of the issuer. The only thing that has changed is the technology used to store and transfer records of the debts and the credits. For greater convenience, men started out gold and silver coins with values imprinted on them. The oldest coins never had a value stamped on them, and the issuer would often change the value, just announce a new value for the coins. They were worth whatever the emperor said they were worth in payment of taxes. So even the gold coin was a debt of the king that issued it because there is no such thing as money without debt. [Music] [Applause] The hearing will come to order. I will emphasize that debt is on an unsustainable course in CBO's projections. Mr. Hall, what are the consequences of high debt? Uh the most important is that if people start asking for a premium to lend the government money to run the government, interest rates could be much higher than we we project at the moment. When the government runs a budget deficit, it pushes interest rates up. That's because the government's trying to borrow more money and interest rates are like the price and whenever you people want more of something, the price of it goes up. There's a big debate as to how much interest rates go up. But that's definitely the direction they go. How can he say that? How can he say it knowing what we have been doing for decades? As our debt has risen in recent years, interest rates have fallen to historic lows. The national debt goes like this and the interest rate the whole entire time, decade after decade. What is the reason for that? Well, I don't know. What is shocking though is that even expert economists can't really explain it either. Here is the former chief of the IMF basically admitting as much. Interest rates on bonds have come down steadily since the mid80s. It's a very long trend and we have no explanation. Yeah, economists really have no [ __ ] idea. Why did we have near zero interest rates? Why does Japan have near zero interest rates for 25 years? It's because the central bank sets the interest rate. It's wherever the central bank wants it to be. It's not set by the market. What they're talking about is something called the loanable funds model. there's this finite supply of savings. So when the government is borrowing, it's borrowing part of that pool of private savings. That means there's less private savings for other things. When the government spends money on something, some business or private person has less money to spend. It is exactly the opposite. The reality is it is the budget deficit that increases the private sector's saving dollar for dollar. Deficits don't shrink the supply of savings. It's augmenting. It's adding to private saving. You see, it's exactly the opposite of what the orthodox story tells us. We owe the Chinese massive amounts of money. We're borrowing trillions of dollars from China. Like, America's in so much debts at this point. I'm waiting for China to pull up and just tow one of the states away. Just going to be like, "Yeah, you didn't pay. We're repoing this, man." No, the US government is not borrowing dollars from China. Okay. All right. So, let's start with trade. China holds all this US government debt, right? And people get anxious about that. It could impoverish future generations because they would need to pay back monies to the foreigners we borrowed from. So why does China have all of these US treasuries? Where did they get them? They bought them using what? US dollars. Where did they get the dollars? It's because we buy stuff from China. We buy more from China than China buys from us. They end up with US dollars. So when Donald Trump talks about trade, how does he think about trade? When was the last time anybody saw us beating let's say China? China's killing us. When he says China's killing us, if you look at China and Japan is killing us. You look at Japan and Mexico is killing us. And if you look at Mexico, they're killing us. every country we lose money with the dollars are going out to the rest of the world. What is he missing? [Applause] So when I was watching the debates with my son who was nine at the time and there is Donald Trump and he's saying they send their cars over by the millions. Japan is sending us all these cars and what do we get? And my son turns to me and he goes, "The cars?" And I said, "That's right, Bradley. The cars, right? This is the piece he's missing. There's stuff that's coming in." If you look at what your real wealth is as a nation, you can consider your real wealth, your pile of stuff. Your imports add to your pile of stuff that you have and your exports lower. Our policy makers have this completely backwards. Why did China end up with so many dollars? Because they sent us so much stuff. So they end up with effectively a checking account at the Fed. Then usually the Central Bank of China will ask the Fed, "We would like to have some government bonds instead of reserves because we would like to earn some interest." It's like a checking account and a savings account. Debit their checking account at the Fed and credit their securities account. We've borrowed from China. China doesn't create any US dollars. Every dollar that China got came from the US and all that happens when they buy a bond. It's not that they're lending to the government so Uncle Sam can spend in America, it's that we're allowing them to transfer funds from their checking account to savings account and they get to earn some interest. That's all it means to borrow from China. We can't keep borrowing and borrowing borrowing from the American future. We should not even use the term borrowing. We refer to the government selling treasuries as borrowing. But here's what's really happening. The government says, "Okay, whenever I run a deficit, I borrow. I did $10 worth of deficit spending, so I have to sell this $10 treasury. Who wants it?" And sure enough, there's someone in the economy that's holding $10 in cash was put there by the government's deficit. So, the reason we don't want to call it borrowing is because the government is first putting the money in and then taking the money back out and replacing it with a bond. So, the $10 comes out and a $10 bond replaces it. That's just interestbearing currency. That's part of someone's financial wealth, part of their savings. The bonds you buy, they're an obligation of the government in the same way as a dollar bill in your pocket, but with special privileges. You can name someone in the family to own it with you, which means that you both own the bond like a joint savings account. [Music] But we call that borrowing. And we label the bonds the national debt. And that's where everything starts to go haywire. What's the national debt? It's a monster. Reporting from the debt clock in New York City. You know, we're already 14.5 trillion dollars in debt. National debt is now 15. You take your attention to these debt clocks. When I began this campaign, it said it was 15 trillion debt. This crossed the 20 trillion mark. And it ain't 21 trillion in debt. We don't have any money. We're now at 27 about$ 28 trillion in 2024. $45 trillion. Wow. So, what I would like this afternoon to be is essentially a form of group therapy because we need it. Okay. The national debt is nothing more than a historical record of all of the times the US government spent more dollars than it took out. And those dollars got transformed into US treasuries. Whether bonds or cash, they're both our assets. Under my proposal, the national debt will be completely eliminated by the year 2012. We're saying, let's get back to a path of paying the debt off. A debtree nation for your children. The US government debt that we're leaving to our grandchildren is their financial wealth. That's absolutely correct. It turns out that all that debt that's on that debt clock is actually it's also private sector wealth. So that debt clock may as well just say private sector wealth. Now that you know what the national debt is, you can look at that debt clock and watch the name. It becomes the US dollar savings clock. So now we don't have to get so anxious because it doesn't have the word debt any longer. Now we know it's just recording all of the dollars that are currently being held as somebody's savings. So now, don't you feel better? If you can get people to that understanding this thing is is not a monster, it's not a cancer, it's not a threat to future generations, it's not immoral, it's just our savings. And then you start getting people focused on the things that matter. We're still going to have disagreements about the best way to use the deficit, but at least we would be having the right debate. What can we afford? The question isn't will it increase the deficit. The question is, will it increase inflationary pressures? At that point, I'm going to take a deep breath, huge sigh of relief, and I'm going to go spend some time with my kids because I'll know we finally did it. All right, good boy. Let's go. That's how he sleeps. I don't know if it's the breed or if this is just a particularly weird dog. Baby, thank you so much, Professor Kelton, for joining us here today. I want to ask, why is it that we're letting everybody, you know, continue with this misunderstanding of how things work? You know, who who's going to align with you if you step out first? you're going to be a target. Those ideas are going to be a target. But MMT has always been a group of us that sacrificed a lot to make the professional decision to say things that are so different from what everyone else is saying. Knowing that you're going to be not just challenged, but ridiculed along the way. You got to have some thick skin to get through it. But if you're convinced that the work that you're doing is important and that the ideas will hold up to scrutiny, then you just keep pushing forward. I want to talk about modern monetary theory which basically states that countries can finance their operations by continuously printing money without really the fear of inflation. We can print as much money as we want and we can spend as much money as we want and there are no consequences. That's crazy. That's not what we say. We would say sure Congress can always authorize the spending but if they authorize too much you'll get inflation. It's at the center. It's inflation is the constraint. We're not removing the limits. The true constraints on government spending are the resources that are available. Our people, our land, water and agriculture, our factories, our infrastructure and transportation, education and technology, our healthcare. All of us recognizing that we don't want punishing inflation. We don't want inflation to get out of control. And the MMT position is that the best defense against inflation is a good offense. It's to think about it ahead of time. It's to consider before you allow a vote. If you want to do $2 trillion of infrastructure investment, what are the real resources that we're going to need? Where are you going to get the contractors and the architects, the engineers, the steel, the concrete, the machines? Show me that you have access to the real resources or are you going to have to compete for those? And that tells me that you're going to be bidding up prices. If they say if you do this trillion dollars without raising taxes, inflation will go to 3 and 12%. Then you go, whoa, okay, I need some offsets before we vote on this. You do it before the vote. And that's why it's so important to have a careful evaluation. And economists can do this. You have to analyze where the economy is at the moment. If we're in a recession with lots of unemployed people and resources in factories, the government can spend a lot more no matter the size of the debt. Whereas, if we're in a boom, when the economy is already close to full capacity, the government needs to be much more careful about how much and what they spend on. Some kinds of spending will be inherently more inflationary than other kinds of spending. But private banks also create money. That can add to inflation, too. Banks create bank money. They create it every time they make a loan. [Music] But this isn't in the textbooks either. This mainstream textbook reads, "A primary job of banks is to take in deposits from people who want to save and use these deposits to make loans to people who want to borrow." No, it's not correct. Banks don't lend other people's money. If if they operated that way, we wouldn't get global financial crisis. we would not get speculative bubbles in housing. I would have my students rip that chapter out of the book and then I would teach them how banking works. If you walk into a bank and you sit down with a loan officer, the loan officer doesn't look to see if they have money available to lend to you. They look at you. They look at your employment and your income. And if a bank thinks you're a good creditworthy customer and I can make money by granting this loan to you, then the loan officer acquires the loan, that is, they put it on the asset side of their balance sheet and they said, "This is now my asset, $50,000 loan to Mr. X. And Mr. X, on the other hand, has his own balance sheet and he's just taken out a loan. So he's added a liability to the liability side of his balance sheet. 50,000 has been added in debt and they put 50,000 in the customer's bank account. They simply change the numbers in Mr. X's bank account. That's on the liability side of the bank's balance sheet. Balance sheets have to balance. So, both of their balance sheets are in balance. Where do the banks get the money that they loan out? They get it from their chartered authority to issue deposits. That's where it comes from. Got the money from the keyboard. Your checking account deposit is your bank's I owe you. That is their liability or debt. And when you repay the loan, just like the IUS, the money disappears because they have this ability to create money. Banks need to be regulated. They can make good loans and they can make bad loans. In the leadup to the crisis, Wall Street financed all of these fraudulent mortgages, trillions of dollars of bad loans. um that went bad. We start 2009 in the midst of a crisis unlike any we have seen in our lifetime. Many businesses cannot borrow or make payroll. Many families cannot pay their bills or their mortgage. Many workers are watching their life savings disappear. In the 2000s, I was a lawyer at a really big law firm on Wall Street. The task that I got was to explain how did this financial crisis that we've been plunged into happen. Millions of people lost their jobs. It was horrible. The deficit and debt automatically go up as people are thrown into unemployment. This past weekend, the federal debt passed the $12 trillion mark. At the beginning of 2010, in the midst of this terrible, deep recession, Obama's team pivoted to the deficit. We will not be adding more to the national debt. Because in these hard times, we have to do what families across America are doing. Save where we can so that we can afford what we need. And I think it's a fair bet that the United States will default. If foreign lenders lose confidence in our ability to put our government's financial house in order, we could experience a dramatic increase in interest rates. That's what he was hearing. You know, Greece was borrowing at relatively low rates until it wasn't crisis. A ruinous debt crisis. Fiscal policy turned negative. We're trying to cut the deficit by $4 trillion over the next decade. This freeze will require painful cuts. This was a time when bank money was rapidly disappearing because households were trying to pay back unsustainable private debts and banks weren't making many new loans as jobs, income, and prices were down. Spending was in a downward spiral. Good afternoon. My name is Reverend Delman Coats. I'm the senior pastor of Mount Enan Baptist Church in Clinton, Maryland, Prince George's County, where I pastor leads the state of Maryland in foreclosures. I would have these sessions here at the church meant we'd have thousands of people here. At the height of the Great Recession, 800,000 Americans were losing their jobs each month. Our factories weren't operating anywhere near their full capacity. Machines were lying idle. We had a housing bubble burst. So, we had all these contractors and engineers and architects and electricians. All these people are out of work. We have lots of people who know how to build stuff. The US easily could have spent $2 trillion into the US economy repairing, modernizing America's third world infrastructure with no new taxes because we had all the slack in the economy to absorb that spending without the risk of inflation. We have work to do in society. Work to address our greatest existential threat right now, which is climate change. The federal government has the power of the public purse to put every American who desires a dignified job to work. But people were the most worried about the national debt at precisely the time when the federal government could have spent more than at any time since the Great Depression. That was a disastrous missed opportunity to employ those resources to benefit the country. That was a tragic mistake. But Stephanie Kelton was not speaking to Obama at this stage of history. You know, I have a computer screen, I have a phone, I have an iPad, and I have a laptop. So, without being on Twitter, I can be aware of Twitter. For several years after the financial crisis, the MMT people had a lot of small victories, but they didn't really have a a major breakthrough. You know, we were writing and publishing and we were largely ignored. We wanted to have a voice in the policy debates and the way to do that is not to write a journal article that goes under review and two years later gets published. That doesn't get you kind of in the debate. You had to thrust your way in somehow. I remember going to Randy and saying, "I'd like to start a blog. Will you contribute?" And he said, "What's a blog?" The blog is fit. That's where I came across it. And it was fun. Hey, what's that new group over there that's saying something different? We were making some pretty big calls and what people call finance Twitter. They paid attention first. Wall Street seems very receptive, more so than the economics profession. They just want to get their bets right. That made people pay a little bit of attention and then they started laughing at us. Modern monetary theory, kind of like a kid coming up with the modern dietary theory. It says it's okay to eat cookies for every meal. And we sort of celebrated because we said, "Okay, well, we left the first stage. We're not ignored anymore. Now we're to the then they ridicule you stage. So that was actually moving on up. That felt kind of good. What is modern monetary theory? And is there anything you know of that they say that's, you know, factually wrong or or inaccurate? No. You know, this is the thing. It's a matter of emphasis and rhetoric. You can look at the pronouncements of people like Stephanie Kelton saying, "Look, we keep repeating that real resource constraints are what really matter." The modern monetary theorists do say there's ultimately scarcity of resources, but too often they treat the world as if the norm is one of generally unemployed resources and plenty of them. But I must say in the last 20 years, of course, since 2008, there have been more times when we haven't been constrained than when we have. But the question is, all right, well, what do they think we should do to actually control inflation when it's upon us? Breaking news on the economy at any moment now. The Federal Reserve is expected to raise interest rates for the sixth time this year. The Fed's goal to tamp down inflation, which is now at a 40-year high. Americans are paying more for gas, food, clothing, and cars. [Music] In the US, Congress has given the Fed a dual mandate. We want full employment. We want low inflation. Go get them, Tiger. We say the Fed, it's your job. They have one tool. One tool. The overnight interest rate. Find the magic interest rate that puts the whole US economy in balance. The Fed cannot tax. The Fed cannot spend. The Fed can only set interest rates. Interest rate policy is a very blunt tool. I mean, you have to understand what the driver of the inflation is. When you have a water leak flooding your basement, you better identify the correct source of the leak if you want to solve the problem. Is the inflation coming from an increase in demand or a decrease in the supply of goods and real resources? Perhaps from a global pandemic that disrupted factories, workers going to work, supply chains, and shipping. Perhaps it's severe flooding that cut food production in a country by 90%. Or is it OPEC or an oil embargo increasing the cost of energy? In 1973, the price of oil jumped four times higher than before. So what policies can address inflation by targeting where it's coming from? if it's coming from a shortage in the energy sector. We can reduce our consumption of oil with policies to conserve, drive less, fly less, no fees for public transit, work from home, shorter work weeks. And we can also increase the capacity of that sector to relieve some of the pressure and bottlenecks. You can actually spend money and reduce inflationary pressures. money that builds new capacity, building mass transit and converting to 100% renewable energy. So, healthcare, education, housing, and energy and transportation. The Green New Deal includes those areas specifically, not because it's the favorite shopping list of the progressive movement, but because these are the sources of inflation. we going to include them in the Green New Deal because that's how you increase availability, reduce cost or are corporations taking advantage of a natural disaster, war, or pandemic to mark up prices much higher than the cost of production? In World War II, they didn't just leave it to the market or the Federal Reserve's one tool of raising interest rates to manage inflation and allocate scarce resources. That would never have worked to prevent real shortages or rising prices. Don't grab for more than your share. But what if we want to increase government spending and the economy is already at full capacity? Then the resources have to be freed up or created. How do you do that? We can first look at where are we wasting resources. You know, I think of Medicare for all as a huge opportunity in this respect. We have the biggest most expensive health care system in the entire world. Roughly 18% of US GDP. If we were to transition to a leaner, more efficient form of healthcare delivery, it's going to save us a lot of resources. You know, eliminating the middleman. If you want to fight inflation, you need to release resources. defense, the military-industrial complex, and we had this behemoth of a finance sector. You got like over 20 million people tied up in this stuff. They could be doing something else. They could have cured cancer, built out all the green infrastructure. And remember, private banks create money that adds to spending pressure as well. Banks have a special banking license that allows them to issue credit. And that license was given to them by the federal government for a specific public purpose. But over time, we forgot about the public purpose and we just let them loose. Government spending on bricks and mortar to build hospitals is not more inflationary than private spending on bricks and mortar to build casinos. If we're really at full capacity, we have to prioritize how do we use the physical capacity like we did during World War II. And that means reeregulating the kinds and quality of loans that banks create. Do we really need 20 more casinos this year? Maybe we should have 20 more hospitals instead. But the ultimate inflationary pressure in front of us is climate change itself. So, we will need to very carefully manage our real resources while we decarbonize the economy if we want to keep prices stable in the future. MMT doesn't solve all our problems. Being able to create money doesn't solve all our problems. But finding the money is often the least important challenge. The real challenge revolves around how we can organize our collective resources to allow humanity and the rest of the living world to thrive within planetary boundaries. If we have a vision for a better future, money is not the scarce resource we need to go out and find before we can start building it. Money is the organizing tool we can use to mobilize our people and real resources to make that vision a reality. So what role does the government play in the economy? The textbooks tell you that money originates in private markets and then later much later in history governments came in later governments took over the exclusive function of finding money. But when you actually look at the historical record, what comes first is law and a decision to organize the social provisioning process through this mechanism called money. Only later did markets develop and markets could really only develop after you had money. Now, why does it matter that we tell the right story? Because this story is the basis of free market ideology. The state is not some force that steps into market relationships that disrupts the market mechanism. Markets don't spring out on their own. They need laws enforcing and protecting private property in order to operate. There has never been a market economy with no government. But we have been tricked into believing that the government shouldn't have anything to do with it. Economics originally was called moral philosophy. The reason why economics tries to claim that it is a science studying natural laws is because they want to pretend that they're not making moral judgments. These are the laws of the economy and they produce these outcomes. Inequality and we make people believe that that's just nature then people will just accept there's nothing you can do about it. If money is natural who has the money is natural as well. The economy is extremely complex but it's important to understand that it's a human creation guided by rules and laws. We can change those rules and laws. Bernie called two weeks before Christmas 2014. It was definitely a pivotal moment when Bernie Sanders contacted Stephanie Kelton to offer her the job as chief economist of the Senate Budget Committee. I think the first question he asked me was, "What would you do if you were me?" And so I just immediately said, "Second Bill of Rights." a second bill of rights. The right to a useful and remunerative job, the right of every family to a decent home, the right to adequate medical care. Saying that people have rights to a job, rights to housing, rights to health care. It's very powerful language. We must take up the unfinished business of the New Deal and carry it to completion. And two weeks later, I had an apartment in DC. Bernie Sanders last night on Fox laying out his policy proposals. But how much would those plans actually cost? All the presidential candidates want to spend much more of your money. You know, whose money are we spending? And the simple answer is your money. The government is not some entity that has its own money. The government only has money because people pay taxes. He's just absolutely wrong. government spends by creating money and when it taxes it destroys money. really making absolutely clear that the government does not need your money to act. [Music] Our next speaker is Stephanie Kelton. We believe the government has no money of its own. That's what Margaret Thatcher told us. There is no such thing as public money. There is only taxpayer money. She told us the only way government can fund programs is if it can find the money. So naturally, you have to go where the money is. And that means tax the rich. Without them, we can't afford to feed a hungry kid, care for our planet, meet the imminent threat of climate change. None of these things can be accomplished unless and until we get your money. You people are nice. You're lovely. But the truth is, we don't need you. We don't need you. We don't need the rich people's money. We need to tax the rich people because they're too rich. We don't want an oligarchy. We don't want a world where a smaller and smaller number of people have a larger and larger concentration of the wealth and income. It screws up the functioning of our economy and it screws up the functioning of our democracy. But how much should we tax? It's not that they're not paying their fair share. It's that they're taking more than their fair share. Much more than their fair share. So you have to decide what is too rich, what threatens democracy and you remove that and then you leave the rest. And it's not because Uncle Sam needs the money. Okay? You don't stop when you get enough revenue. If we get revenue from them, we're going to burn it anyway. [Applause] We are the generation that will need international action. We demand a green new deal. Change is coming whether they like it or not. And then this debate blew up and MMT got fired at from all angles by everybody. Bill Gates recently took exception with MMT calling it crazy talk. That's garbage. Trash garbage. This theory is complete nonsense. I don't even think it's a theory. Free money for everyone. We already know it doesn't work. And so we're in the fight you stage. They defy the laws of arithmetic. Bunch of malarkey. So do I think we're going to win? I won't say no, but it's going to be a hell of a fight. [Music] We should not be servants of money. Money is fundamentally a public utility. The true story of money makes it a political decision, a political choice. We have to shift from their money to our money. Money belongs to us. It's the people's money. Our money. Our power. Our money. In a democratic society, we get to decide what the priorities are for the national provisioning of resources. In Dr. King's words, we deserve an economic bill of rights. Good jobs promoting the public good. Restoring our neighborhoods and our ecosystems. When do we want MMT economists come in and show you what kind of a world is possible? What can we do to improve our educational system? What can we do to improve our health care system? Money is a tool and we need to figure out how to deploy that tool. I just want to empower people to fight back against all of the kinds of things that stand in our way of building a better future, building a better world. And many of the reasons that we've been told we can't build what we would like to build are not legitimate obstacles. One of the biggest obstacles is this idea that the government simply can't find the money. Once we drive a stake through the heart of this myth, then we open up the possibilities for public policy that can deliver the public good. There's a famous quote of Kanes, I'll have to paraphrase. He says, "When I find new evidence, I change my mind." What do you do? [Music] Heat. Heat. N. [Music] [Music] [Music]